
Are you serious? You really want to use this software?

Well, okay, here are some tips. You will need to compile it, which I
have only tried to do on Windows and Mac OS X. It is just
written in regular ol' C++ (well, C++20) with minimal dependencies, so
you can probably get it compiling on linux or other platforms, as
long as you can find a C++20 compiler like Clang. To use it with the
LLM, you need to compile llama.cpp, which is not horrible. Getting the
OpenCL or CUDA backends working will be harder.

From my sourceforge repository, you will need to check out this
directory (which is called "rephrase") and parallel directories "cc-lib"
and "bit7" and "llm". You may be able to get away without the latter
two if you aren't going to run some side utilities and aren't planning
to use the LLM.

** To use without LLM:

This should be mostly reasonable? Modify the makefile and comment
out the ENABLE_LLM=true line if it isn't already. Then try something like

make -j 8 test

to build everything and run some tests. If it doesn't work, you could
try making sure the compiler flags look good at the top. There's a bunch
of complexity in the makefile in the middle from llama.cpp, which
you should be able to ignore when ENABLE_LLM is not set.


** To use with the LLM:

You'll need "llama.cpp" from github. I think I made some modifications
to this repository, so if it doesn't compile, you may be out of luck,
or you can try to fix them. I really should check in a fork of
llama.cpp, but upstream changes so fast!

Then, of course, set ENABLE_LLM=true in the makefile. If you manage
to get it building, then you'll need to get a model to load in order
to do the actual inference. Currently it is expecting llama2 models.
You can get these from Facebook (and then follow the possibly
irritating process to convert them into .gguf format) or maybe
just download one from the internet and hope it hasn't been injected
with an Omega virus.


Some known issues:
 - If you are using the LLM, it may be quite slow. The LLM
   settings are tuned for my computer in 2024
   (32-core, 256 GB RAM, GeForce 4090). You can select
   a different model by editing rephrasing.cc, and you can
   change the settings (number of layers on GPU, number of
   threads, etc.) in ../llm/models.h. You'll almost certainly
   need to change the paths there too. You could even use
   ../llm/tune.cc to find good settings for your machine.

 - Error messages are quite bad! If you know the type
   theory of Standard ML, you will have some chance. Otherwise,
   you will probably need to read "Types and Programming Languages"
   and then guess what changes I might have made, or read the
   source code.

 - Speaking of which: If your document looks bad, it could
   be a bug in:
      - Your document (your BoVeX code)
      - The PDF generation code
      - The PDF viewer you're using (they seem to disagree
        on whether my generated files are any good)?
      - The layout code (my BoVeX code)
      - The standard library (my BoVeX code)
      - The LLM crapped it up (this is NOT a bug)
      - The BoVeX compiler, optimizations, execution engine, etc.
      - The C++ compiler, or I guess, your hardware

   You can tell me if you found or fixed a bug, but I ain't doin'
   technical support unless it's interesting!

 - There is a bug with mutually recursive functions that capture
   polymorphic variables in their environments. Alas, this is not
   easily fixed. I need to either make the translation of them use
   first-class polymorphism, monomorphize, add mutually-recursive
   function bundles to the IL, or figure out some other
   transformation.

